# AlgoHack-Jam- 
 
 
 Novice Track

# Inspiration

Quilox Rides was inspired by corporate giants such as Uber and Lyft, and how they are centralizing all common transactions between the common driver persona and passenger. Uber and Lyft prevent users and drives from connecting and they collect 25% of the total amount of money the passenger pays to the driver. We wanted to remove the middleman (Uber and Lyft) and develop a new application that would have all the features of Uber (and way more) and decentralize the whole process of common ride sharing platforms. Quilox Rides will solve the problem by removing the middleman and storing user’s data such that it’s decentralized and no one can access it other than themselves. Quilox Rides, A Decentralized Solution to Carpooling Services, will solve the problems that many corporate giants fail to address. We decentralize this service with trustless smart contracts and eliminating the middleman, and the fees that come along with them.

# What it can do

Quilox Rides allows users to operate a ride sharing program similar to the likes of Uber or Lyft, but quite simply, in the most efficient way possible. Quilox Rides will be a Dapp, or decentralized application, that utilizes trustless smart contracts in order to act as the intermediary for Ride Sharing. Think of it as an automated peer managed version of a middleman. Because of this, we can provide costs for Rides that have virtually a $0 middleman fee. This is revolutionary in the sense that we can sort out disputes and move legal liability away from the gig workers, into trustless contracts.

# How we can built it

We can build this decentralized application with IPFS, the Algorand Ecosystem, ReactJS, Express, Material UI, and our brains. We can use the IPFS Protocol, to store our user data such that it’s decentralized and can prevent any external sources from accessing the user’s private information. IPFS works such that when you upload a file it will generate a hash linked to that file which we can access on any IPFS Gateway. We also utilized the Algorand Ecosystem to securely store the smart contracts that we wrote to monitor each user. The Algorand Ecosystem is necessary for our application to fully blossom as it is needed in our proof of thought for the project. We can utilized ReactJS to develop our frontend for this application, by creating multiple pages for the user and also develop multiple components that can connect to our Express Backend. We can use the Google Maps API to display the routes between one point on the latitude and longitude and develop this by using a Higher Order Component that can wrap over the initial Map component that will display the route between any two given points. For our application, we can use the Web Geolocation API that would determine the current user’s location on the decentralized web application. We can use the data from the Geolocation API and the address that the user would input (their desired location) to properly route these locations. We can also use the Material UI Library to style our components and properly make our application UI and UX friendly. Our backend barebone consists of express with multiple routers for every single endpoint that would call everyone a single IPFS function, and Smart Contract function.
